Plugins I use
=============

These are all hosted on GitHub_ [#]_.  You should try at least a few of them,
they may make your life far simpler!

``JNRowe/vim-jnrowe``
---------------------

:repo: https://github.com/JNRowe/vim-jnrowe

    "My colorscheme, decoupled from my vim-configs repo for others ;)"

.. image:: http://jnrowe.github.com/vim-jnrowe/_images/default.png
   :target: http://jnrowe.github.com/vim-jnrowe/_images/default.png
   :width: 25%

My tango palette colour scheme, try it you'll like it!

``Lokaltog/vim-easymotion``
---------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/Lokaltog/vim-easymotion

    "Vim motions on speed!"

Makes applying multiple motions a joyous experience.  If you thought people were
disturbed when they saw you jumping about in ``vim`` before then just wait until
they see you using this.

``Raimondi/delimitMate``
------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/Raimondi/delimitMate

    "Vim plugin, provides insert mode auto-completion for quotes, parens, brackets, etc."

The number 1 "Love it or hate it" plugin, to use it well you'll want to read its
documentation and disable the defaults that get in the way of your favourite
language.

``Rykka/colorv.vim``
--------------------

:repo: https://github.com/Rykka/colorv.vim

    "A vim plugin to make  colors handling easier"

Pretty cool colour wheel and colour previewer, just don't look at the repo
history.

``Shougo/neobundle.vim``
------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/Shougo/neobundle.vim

    "a Vim plugin manager inspired by Vundle"

neobundle is the plugin which makes my configuration work, without it I'd be
lost.

``bitc/vim-bad-whitespace``
---------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/bitc/vim-bad-whitespace

    "Highlights whitespace at the end of lines, only in modifiable buffers"

Highlights or deletes broken whitespace, and removes that ugly
almost-kind-of-works solution from your ``.vimrc``.

``bling/vim-airline``
---------------------

:repo: https://github.com/bling/vim-airline

    "Lean & mean statusline for vim that's light as air"

The main reason to use this is not "simply because it is pretty", but mostly
because you can dump heaps and heaps of custom code you've written in your
``.vimrc`` and replace it with a heap of code that is better maintained.

``chrisbra/NrrwRgn``
--------------------

:repo: https://github.com/chrisbra/NrrwRgn

    "A Narrow Region Plugin for vim (like Emacs Narrow Region)"

If, like me, you're a partial emacs convert ``NrrwRgn`` is wonderful.  If you're
not then simply imagine being able to work in a visual mode hunk for a full
editing session.

``chrisbra/csv.vim``
--------------------

:repo: https://github.com/chrisbra/csv.vim

    "A Filetype plugin for csv files"

Disturbingly cool editing for CSV files, 'nuff said.

``chrisbra/unicode.vim``
------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/chrisbra/unicode.vim

    "A Vim plugin that provides a completion function for Unicode glyphs"

Be like me and annoy your co-workers/friends by littering your mails with
Unicode.  It's Really Exciting ``U+2122<C-x><C-u>``

``ciaranm/securemodelines``
---------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/ciaranm/securemodelines

    "A secure alternative to Vim modelines"

This lightens the load of dealing with people who can't follow coding
standards(see above) without allowing them free access to your vim session.

``ehamberg/vim-cute-python``
----------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/ehamberg/vim-cute-python

    "Unicode goodness for Python code by using vim's “conceal” feature"

Make your Python code unreadable to people looking over your shoulder, by
decorating it with glyphs.

*Be sure to try the ``moresymbols`` branch.*

``ervandew/regex``
------------------

:repo: https://github.com/ervandew/regex

    "Vim plugin to test regular expressions for various languages (java, python,
    ruby)"

Removes the need to jump to your language's REPL when writing ugly, ugly REs

``ervandew/supertab``
---------------------

:repo: https://github.com/ervandew/supertab

    "Perform all your vim insert mode completions with Tab"

Makes you feel more like a smart IDE user, how cool is that?

``fishman/vim-vala``
--------------------

:repo: https://github.com/rainux/vim-vala

    "Vala runtime files from http://live.gnome.org/Vala/Vim"

Makes you feel like your favourite language has less love than a ``gnash``
config file or Kix2001 oddity.

``fs111/pydoc.vim``
-------------------

:repo: https://github.com/fs111/pydoc.vim

    "pydoc integration for the best text editor on earth"

Pop up documentation for that obscure-function-with-a-random-string-suffix name.

``garbas/vim-snipmate``
-----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/garbas/vim-snipmate

    "snipMate.vim aims to be a concise vim script that implements some of
    TextMate's snippets features in Vim. "

Templates that don't make you want to pull your hair out every time you think
about inserting one.

``godlygeek/tabular``
---------------------

:repo: https://github.com/godlygeek/tabular

    "Vim script for text filtering and alignment"

Fancy text alignment tricks are only seconds away.

This is the one plugin you use to make people who use lesser environments
jealous.

``gregsexton/MatchTag``
-----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/gregsexton/MatchTag

    "Vim's MatchParen for HTML tags"

The perfect solution for dealing with poorly formatted templates, or deeply
nested tags in templates

``gregsexton/gitv``
-------------------

:repo: https://github.com/gregsexton/gitv

    "gitk for Vim."

Like ``tig``? Use ``gitv``

``honza/snipmate-snippets``
---------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/honza/snipmate-snippets

    "vim-snipmate default snippets"

The repo you'll be looking to fork when inserting a template makes you feel
physically sick.

``jceb/vim-editqf``
-------------------

:repo: https://github.com/jceb/vim-editqf

    "Make quickfix entries editable"

Save all the window hopping key bashes and fix all those compiler warnings
directly.

``jceb/vim-fastwordcompleter``
------------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/jceb/vim-fastwordcompleter

    "Really fast word completion while typing"

Crazy insert completion, the most incredible way to type those dirty Java-esque
identifiers some people seem to love.

``jceb/vim-hier``
-----------------

:repo: https://github.com/jceb/vim-hier

    "Highlight quickfix errors"

Keep on top of all those annoying compiler warnings and typos in your text
documents.

``kien/ctrlp.vim``
------------------

:repo: https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim

    "Fuzzy file, buffer, mru, tag, etc finder."

Calm your occasional TextMate jealousy, and rejoice in other peoples when they
see ``vim`` + fuzzy find.

``kien/rainbow_parentheses.vim``
--------------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/kien/rainbow_parentheses.vim

    "Better Rainbow Parentheses"

Make your ``vim`` sessions feel like they have been painted by a three year old
trying to impress their grandpa.

``ledger/vim-ledger``
---------------------

:repo: https://github.com/ledger/vim-ledger

    "The ledger filetype for vim, extracted from ledger repository"

Combine this with ``csv.vim``, and it makes importing and editing your
accounts/expenses an almost nice-ish experience.

``michaeljsmith/vim-indent-object``
-----------------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/michaeljsmith/vim-indent-object


   "Text objects based on indent levels"

Makes handling Python code far, far easier.

``scrooloose/nerdtree``
-----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree

    "A tree explorer plugin for vim."

Removes the need to install ``mc`` just to fish out that file to open in
``vim``.

``scrooloose/syntastic``
------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic

    "Syntax checking hacks for vim"

Start your mind boggling every time someone moans about having to switch from
WingIDE to a real editor when they edit files of different types.

``sjl/clam.vim``
----------------

:repo: https://github.com/sjl/clam.vim

   "Clam.vim is a lightweight Vim plugin to easily run shell commands"

The perfect companion for editing documentation that features shell sessions.

``sjl/gundo.vim``
-----------------

:repo: https://github.com/sjl/gundo.vim

    "Graph your Vim undo tree in style."

Finally grasp the lack of complexity which is the ``vim`` undo tree.

``spolu/dwm.vim``
-----------------

:repo: https://github.com/spolu/dwm.vim

   "Tiled Window Management for Vim"

Excellent window management, it really does bring ``dwm`` simplicity to ``vim``!

``tpope/vim-characterize``
--------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/tpope/vim-characterize

   "Pressing ``ga`` on a character reveals its representation... Characterize.vim modernizes this"

Discover the characters hidden by boxes in your broken font, and learn how to
type all those fancy digraphs.

``tpope/vim-commentary``
------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/tpope/vim-commentary

    "commentary.vim: comment stuff out"

Comment out those abusive remarks you wrote about a vim plugin with the simple
power of ``\\\``.

``tpope/vim-fugitive``
----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive

    "fugitive.vim: a Git wrapper so awesome, it should be illegal"

Replace most of your use of a shell when working on a project with just another
``vim`` buffer.

``tpope/vim-repeat``
--------------------

:repo: https://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat

    "repeat.vim: enable repeating supported plugin maps with \".\""

Make ``.`` work how you think it works… once someone has hacked in support to
your favourite plugin anyway.

``tpope/vim-sensible``
----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/tpope/vim-sensible

   "a universal set of defaults that (hopefully) everyone can agree on."

Sane defaults for ``vim``, tracking this repo might make your ``vim`` experience
a little more comfortable.

``tpope/vim-sleuth``
--------------------

   "automatically adjusts ``'shiftwidth'`` and ``'expandtab'`` heuristically based on the current file"

Automagic indentation configuration, that just works.

``tpope/vim-speeddating``
-------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/tpope/vim-speeddating

    "speeddating.vim: use CTRL-A/CTRL-X to increment dates, times, and more"

Speed up those ``y`` and ``p`` based ``ledger`` entry writing sessions by
fifteen orders of magnitude.

``tpope/vim-surround``
----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround

    "surround.vim: quoting/parenthesizing made simple"

Make using ``ls -1`` to produce the headings for your own ``plugins.rst``
a relatively painless task.

``vim-scripts/Toggle``
----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/vim-scripts/Toggle

    "allows you to toggle bool (true/false) and other words with a shortcut"

Edit your config files like they had a fancy dialog box to fiddle with their
preferences.

``vim-scripts/ZoomWin``
-----------------------

:repo: https://github.com/vim-scripts/ZoomWin

    "Zoom in/out of windows (toggle between one window and multi-window)"

Hide the fact you can't use your favourite tiling window manager everywhere you
go, by mimicking the ``<Mod4-m>`` and ``<Mod4-t>`` commands you can't stop
yourself hitting.

``vim-scripts/python_match.vim``
--------------------------------

:repo: https://github.com/vim-scripts/python_match.vim

    "Extend the % motion and define g%, [%, and ]% motions for Python files"

Mimic the jumping behaviour normally limited to those languages that force you
to use all those parentheses(and ``end`` tokens[and scoping brackets])).

.. _github: https://github.com/

.. [#] I tend to ignore plugins that aren't available in this manner, because
       the effort required to manage them normally exceeds their usefulness
